---
layout: post
title: Zero means nothing
---

We're smart chimpanzees. We're fish that cannot survive underwater anymore. We're a collection of many highly-evolved bacteria. We're stones that can talk. A bunch of carbon that did not decay/ burn (yet?). Stardust, yes. But also dog poop. We're to Earth what a surprise hive of bees were to my bedroom when living in the farm. Yes, for some time it seems they are very important and you cannot imagine recovering your bedroom ever again. But after a while, they're gone and you go back to worrying about something else. We're just a superfluous, small, temporal event.

We're also no better than other chimpanzees. Why do we have rights and a pizza does not? Is it fair to mark a difference between alive and dead things? Maybe it's discrimination. Trees should get the vote. I think rocks have rights and should not be broken to make buildings. If you break a rock, do you get two rocks or one broken rock? Does dead imply having been alive? I recommend this [Kim Stanley's trilogy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars_trilogy) for, among many other amazing insights, an argument in defense of preserving rocks.

"When I'm dead" does not mean anything. I'll never be dead. Because I will stop "being" before that. Death is the end of everything. I will not feel alone, or cold, or happy. I will not survive as a ghost in the cosmos. I will not see my dead relatives again. I will never regain consciousness or reincarnate. I will never see my funeral and thus will never be sure if my precise instructions were carried out or not (I hope they are). I will never know if we reached Mars, or if we solved some of the Earth issues at the time of my death. I will never know my grand-grand-children's names, I guess. No matter what I do, I will always regret not doing more. No matter how productive, I will always regret not having produced more. No matter how (insert your favorite life goal), I will never achieve it. I hope I never have to die. That would be literally the worst thing that would happen to me. I recommend [this Kurzgesagt video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBRqu0YOH14) for a better explanation. Don't expect it to cheer you up.

And yet, was I ever alive? I'm still a bunch of cells, or a bunch of atoms. The atoms that make me at the time of my death will continue existing, probably. Why then do I feel like one if I'm so many things at once? Is an ant an animal? Or is an ant just a cell inside the real creature (ant colony)? I believe there is a e-penser video about it but I did not find it. Here are two that are still pretty existentialists, though: [vous n'existez pas réellement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SgTPqCFj_Vk) [qui êtes-vous, with subtitles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9WRML0bwoyo). 

Do I die when I go to sleep? Is it reincarnation every morning? I don't think that dying will be like sleeping. You wake up after sleeping. But you do not wake up from dying. I do not usually dream of dying. When I do, it is usually very dramatic and I wake up without being able to move my body for a while, it's scary. I will probably write about dreams some day. The first time I had a crisis about death, I imagine my body in a random trash can. I do not know why it was this idea that made me think that I am my body and that without it, I do not exist. I remember not minding about being in the trash because the first thought that came to my mind was: I will never know I was thrown inside it.

What motivation then exists for someone with a perpetual death sentence? Make the most of it. You can try to minimize regret. There is no point in dying soon, of course: that only makes everything worse. Maybe find a balance between maximizing your life's length with enjoying it the most. I imagine myself old in some bed, coughing (for some reason). And thinking. Remembering all that I was and all that I was not. My goal is to be proud of me, then, and be able to say "I played well given the cards I was dealt". I will probably regret many things: sleeping too much, being too kind to bad people and to cruel to good people, wasting my time with things and people that are/ were not worth it. I try really hard to bring those things to my everyday action. "Will this be something my old-me will be ashamed of doing?".

I wonder what non-religious people think of dead. And how can they live their lives regardless.
