---
layout: post
title: Incumbency
---

One word I don't even know how to spell. And most of the times I use it with it's opposite meaning, specially referring to presidential candidates. For me, it's always associated with elections. But I've recently tied it to conservatism (another word I don't know how to spell).

The "inside" against the "outside". The "powerful" against the "weak". Incumbency does not exactly match political views, for incumbency is not related to political affiliation, moral, philosophy or view of the world. And I find that because of this, one can build a very different relationship graph for some of the most old debates.

There's a joke my grandfather used to tell about communism (my family was not really into communism for very good reasons). It seems to be a variant of the ["First they came for..."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_they_came_...) poetic form of a post-war confessional prose. It goes something like this. A populist left-wing president is giving a speech where he's explaining that the rich are the responsible for everything and so they should be the ones to pay to solve the problem. Let's imagine he is reading his discourse, and saying "..they do not need two houses, so to everyone that has two houses or more, we will take all but one and then distribute them among everyone else". Everyone cheered. He continued "... and cars, how is it fair that a family uses two cars when most families do not have one: we will take all cars but one and we will give them to the people". The public cheered even more. Finally, he said "... and most people have nothing to eat, while many people have more than enough. So we will take the second chicken and beyond from everyone who has more than one and we will give it to the people in -". The politician abruptly stopped because the cheer never came. He lifted his eyes to see the crowd staring at him worried and mad. He did not realize that everyone in the crowd had more than one chicken.

What follows is a description of different known contemporary issues, seen through the eyes of incumbency. I will start with the necessary disclaimer: I do not pretend that incumbency is the only reason for them to exist. I just want to argue that this situation transcends political views and I expect everyone who reads this to identify with each of the two sides at least once. The argument of incumbency can be summarized in the following way: people want to change what's bad for them and do not want to change what's good for them. Or in other words: the fear of change solely depends on the risk to "me" and what I consider "my extended social group". Even simpler, "we people are always biased and should always be aware of it", which is nothing new, I guess.

The first example that comes to mind, because it has been widely studied is what is usually called "the innovators dilemma".
On a less socially-charged way, it's a phenomenon that is quite  Or large companies, or the state. The "not fuck windows", the creative destruction, the innovators dilemma. There has been written a lot of things about how companies grow complacent and stop innovating in order to keep the money they have, the business model they have, etc. Here, the state is nothing but a very large company that suffers from the same things. But this is not the fault of "the company". The company is nothing but the result of the individual decisions of its employees and owners. I've had worked enough offering new software to large companies to know my fair share of employees who do not want to change their way of working because they fear it will cost them time to adapt, even if the impact of the change is huge for his or her productivity and the companies profits.


Taxes and the rich. While writing this entry I came by the following reddit post [People who don’t want to tax the 1% but are not in the 1%, why?](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/m959ep/people_who_dont_want_to_tax_the_1_but_are_not_in/). The debate is valid, I just cringe at the formulation of the question. Why would the reason depend on whether someone is concerned or not? Why do we expect that people are unable to think objectively or that their argument lose weight if they have something to gain.

Or housing. Not In My Back Yard (NIMBYsm) puts home owners against renters. Usually home owners are seen as rich, but this is not necessarily the case. People who are deep in dept buying a house do not want his house to lose money because some mayor has decided to re-district his or her neighborhood or build a tall building next to it. And renters and home buyers need the extra supply of apartments in order to reduce the prices of houses and rents. There is no good or bad, rich or poor: many home owners are middle class, many renters or home buyers are rich foreigners with good new jobs in the city. Most people who own a home are probably older though. And as we will see, generation and age are important in this discussion.

Take pensions for example. Increasingly, keeping and decreasing pensions is really a fight between the youth and the elder. The money spent in pensions is not spent in something else that would, on average, proportionally benefit more the youth. It's really a mystery to me how this has never been formalized like this. Usually most younger people assume that giving bad pensions for the elder will affect them negatively in the long run because when they are older they will also have less pensions. This is a wild assumption that is similar to someone knowingly participating in a ponse scheme only because he or she will be able to get out soon enough to rip his return.

It happens also with worker rights and minimum wages. "Let's not destroy what our parents and grandparents fought for" is a usual phrase in terms of working rights. Also, the "social victories", "gained rights" and the "droit acquis" are terms that usually come to mind and that make the analogy with property fairly easy. Something that is "yours", you do not want to give away, even if it's a "right" that was "inherited" from the previous generation. Just like inheriting a house from your parent actually. Increasing the minimum wage or adding social benefits would seem to be something that will help a lot of people get a better living. But the unintended consequences can lead to people losing the job to automation or someone with no means not getting his or hers first unqualified job. Of course, people with a job do not see "getting more people employed" as an end in itself, they have jobs. And this is usually the case of older people.

Or global warming. And this is the part where things become abstract. "Saving the planet" is a phrase that I have learned to stop using. Taken literally, it doesn't mean anything. The planet is not a living thing that needs saving. Mercury is a planet and, probably, has no life. Would we consider it a dead planet? No, because dead implies it lived. But even allowing some room for metaphor it never quite gets any sense. Let's start with the word planet and take it as "living things on the planet". Can we really destroy all living things on the planet? No, not even with all the nuclear arsenal at hand. Some years ago a meteorite destroyed a fair amount of creatures in the planet, including most dinosaurs (except chicken, apparently). Was this a catastrophe ? Well, it lead to mammals becoming kings and eventually to us. I would not call it a blessing (specially for dinosaurs) but I'm glad it happened. Was the planet destroyed ? Nope, living things just did what they do: adapt and overcome.

So, what is really the consequence of global warming ? It's an inconvenience, there's no doubt about that. In the scale between meteorite (10) and hitting your toe with the bed leg (1), I would say it's somewhat closer to the meteorite. In particular, for humans and living creatures we use / know and need. And that's the thing. We're our own meteorite and we should be saving ourselves from ourselves. But we're not doing any favor to the earth biomass itself. We will change it, definitely. But the consequences of a change like that are hard to predict and change may involve, in some million years, a "better" earth than it is now, thanks to global warming. Or it can become total annihilation of life as we know it. But that can still happen without global warming. We're the NYMBIs of the ecosystem. We do not want to sacrifice our species by warming the earth to unlivable human temperatures. Greens *are* the conservative.

There is one cure to NIMBIsm which is a cure for many of the problems in human society. Death. On the one hand, people do not like to change their ideas, specially as they grow older. On the other hand, even if ideas don't die with the person that has them they are not copy-pasted to future generations either. Even if a parent tries to force an opinion on the child, the kid is its own mind and will form a different (sometimes even contrary) opinion or idea that will guide him or her. Sometimes to avoid the mistakes of the parents (or previous generation). So, it's generations that shift values, ideas and power.

The lifespan of an average human being has increased over time. We consider this a nice thing. I myself appreciate it very much. Since I'm a child I believe that the only meaningful change we have with respect to cave-times is we now live longer and that the only professions that are really important are the medics and scientist who permit that and the ones that provide the nourishment to continue alive. Everyone else (including me), we're accessory to help them do their job better.

Anyway, the increase of the lifespan of the society has made NIMBYsm a greater issue. Change is slower than it was because the older generations (wink wink baby boomers) are sticking longer, working later in life and still taking decisions such as whether to sell a house or not, or what the country should do (Biden and Trump are both quite old).

